README.md, before:

# Vidzyme - AI Video Generation Platform

Vidzyme is a comprehensive AI-powered video generation platform that enables users to create engaging videos automatically with scheduled generation capabilities and seamless channel management.

## 🚀 Project Overview

**Vidzyme** is a FastAPI-based pipeline that:
1. Uses **Google Gemini** (via `gemini_secret.txt`) to write a video script
2. Splits the script into lines and generates AI images (Pollinations or any other image/video generation API)
3. Translates prompts via `googletrans` if needed
4. Generates voice-overs with **ElevenLabs TTS** (`voice_secret.txt`)
5. Assembles images or videos, audio, and captions into a short video with **MoviePy**, **FFmpeg**, and **ImageMagick**
6. Streams real-time progress via Server-Sent Events (SSE)

Ideal for automating quick YouTube Shorts, videos or social media clips on any topic.

## 📋 Features

### 🎥 Video Generation
- **Automated Script Writing** with Google Gemini
- **Image and Video Generation** for each caption segment
- **High-Quality TTS** from ElevenLabs
- **Dynamic Video Composition** (MoviePy + FFmpeg + ImageMagick)
- **Live Progress Updates** through SSE endpoint
- Real-time video processing status
- Video history and management

### 📅 Scheduled Video Generation
- Automated video generation on custom schedules (daily, weekly, monthly)
- Multiple scheduling options with flexible timing
- Channel-specific content generation
- Queue management for video processing

### 🎯 User Onboarding
- Interactive onboarding flow for new users
- Channel setup and content description capture
- Personalized experience based on user preferences
- Skip option for experienced users

### ⚙️ Channel Management
- Create and manage multiple content channels
- Edit channel information and content descriptions
- Content categorization and target audience settings
- Channel-specific video generation

### 🔗 Multi-Platform Support
- Support for multiple platforms per channel (YouTube, Instagram, TikTok, LinkedIn, and more)
- Select multiple platforms during onboarding for unified content creation
- Platform-specific content optimization and formatting
- Seamless video publishing across selected platforms

### 💳 Subscription Management
- Multiple subscription tiers (Free, Pro, Enterprise)
- Usage tracking and credit system
- Billing management and payment methods
- Real-time usage analytics

### 🛠️ Modular Codebase
- Easy customization and extension
- Clean separation of concerns
- Well-documented API endpoints
- Comprehensive error handling

## Tech Stack

### Frontend
- **React 18** with TypeScript
- **Vite** for fast development and building
- **Tailwind CSS** for styling
- **Lucide React** for icons
- **Custom hooks** for state management

### Backend
- **FastAPI** for high-performance API
- **Supabase** for database and authentication
- **Row Level Security (RLS)** for data protection
- **Real-time subscriptions** for live updates
- **PostgreSQL** with custom functions and triggers

### Database Schema
- Users and user profiles
- Video management and history
- Channel management
- Scheduled video generation
- Video queue processing
- Subscription and usage tracking
- User onboarding status

## ⚙️ Prerequisites

### System Requirements
- **Node.js 18+** and npm
- **Python 3.9+**
- **Git** for version control
- **Supabase** account and project

### System Dependencies

**FFmpeg**
- **Windows**: Download installer from [ffmpeg.org](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) → Add `ffmpeg.exe` to your `PATH`
- **macOS**: `brew install ffmpeg`
- **Ubuntu/Debian**: `sudo apt update && sudo apt install ffmpeg`

**ImageMagick**
- **Windows**: Download from [imagemagick.org](https://imagemagick.org) → Add `magick.exe` to your `PATH`
- **macOS**: `brew install imagemagick`
- **Ubuntu/Debian**: `sudo apt update && sudo apt install imagemagick`

### API Keys

Create these text files in the project root (ignored by `.gitignore`):
- `gemini_secret.txt` - Your Google Gemini API key
- `voice_secret.txt` - Your ElevenLabs API key

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/molashin12/Vidzyme.git
   cd Vidzyme
   ```

2. **Install frontend dependencies**
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   npm install
   cd ..
   ```

3. **Install backend dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Set up environment variables**
   
   Create `.env` files in both frontend and root directories:
   
   **Frontend (.env)**
   ```env
   VITE_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
   VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
   ```
   
   **Backend (.env in root directory)**
   ```env
   SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
   SUPABASE_SERVICE_KEY=your_supabase_service_key
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
   ```

5. **Set up the database**
   
   Run the SQL scripts in your Supabase SQL editor:
   ```bash
   # First, run the main schema
   cat supabase-schema.sql | supabase db reset
   
   # Then, run the extensions for new features
   cat schema-extensions.sql | supabase db reset
   
   # Finally, run the platforms migration for multi-platform support
   cat schema-migration-platforms.sql | supabase db reset
   ```

6. **Start the development servers**
   
   **Frontend**
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   npm run dev
   ```
   
   **Backend**
   ```bash
   python server.py
   ```

### Development

The application will be available at:
- **Frontend**: `http://localhost:3000` (or next available port)
- **Backend API**: `http://localhost:8000`

## ▶️ Running the Application

### Development Mode
```bash
# Start the FastAPI application in development
uvicorn server:app --reload --host 127.0.0.1 --port 8000
```

### Production Mode
```bash
# Run the compiled executable (if available)
.\server.exe
```

### Usage
1. Open your browser to **[http://127.0.0.1:8000](http://127.0.0.1:8000)**
2. Enter a **topic** and select a **voice**
3. Watch real-time progress and download your generated video when it completes

### Alternative Implementation (Veo-3)
The project includes an alternative implementation using Google Veo-3 model:
- Configure `veo3/REPLICATE_API_TOKEN.txt` with your Replicate API token
- Use the Veo-3 modules for direct video generation instead of image-based assembly

## 📁 Project Structure

```
Vidzyme/
├── frontend/                    # React frontend application
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   │   ├── Layout/          # Header, Footer, Navigation
│   │   │   ├── Pages/           # Main application pages
│   │   │   ├── Onboarding/      # User onboarding flow
│   │   │   ├── ScheduledVideos/ # Scheduled video management
│   │   │   ├── Auth/            # Authentication components
│   │   │   └── UI/              # Reusable UI components
│   │   ├── hooks/               # Custom React hooks
│   │   ├── services/            # API and database services
│   │   ├── contexts/            # React context providers
│   │   └── config/              # Configuration files
│   ├── public/                  # Static assets
│   └── package.json
├── utils/                       # Backend utility functions
│   ├── gemini.py               # Google Gemini integration
│   ├── image_gen.py            # Image generation
│   ├── video_creation.py       # Video assembly
│   ├── voice_gen.py            # Voice generation
│   └── write_script.py         # Script writing
├── veo3/                       # Alternative Veo-3 implementation
├── outputs/                    # Generated content storage
│   ├── audio/                  # Generated audio files
│   └── images/                 # Generated images
├── docs/                       # Documentation
├── server.py                   # Main FastAPI server
├── scheduler.py                # Video scheduling system
├── requirements.txt            # Python dependencies
├── supabase-schema.sql         # Main database schema
├── schema-extensions.sql       # Extended schema for new features
├── schema-migration-platforms.sql # Multi-platform migration
├── PLATFORMS_MIGRATION_README.md  # Migration guide
└── README.md
```

## 🔧 Key Features Implementation

### Multi-Platform Support
- Select multiple platforms (YouTube, Instagram, TikTok, LinkedIn, Other) during onboarding
- Store all selected platforms in a single channel record
- Backward compatibility with existing single-platform channels
- Platform-specific content optimization and formatting
- Unified content creation workflow across platforms

### Onboarding Flow
- Multi-step form for new user setup
- Channel information collection with multi-platform selection
- Content preferences and categorization
- Skip option for experienced users
- Automatic redirect to dashboard upon completion

### Scheduled Video Generation
- Create custom schedules with frequency options
- Time-based execution with timezone support
- Channel-specific content generation
- Queue management for processing
- Enable/disable schedules as needed

### Channel Management
- Create and edit multiple channels
- Multi-platform selection and management
- Content description and categorization
- Target audience specification
- Integration with scheduled video generation

## 🔌 API Endpoints

### Video Management
- `POST /api/videos` - Create new video
- `GET /api/videos` - Get user videos
- `GET /api/videos/:id` - Get specific video
- `PUT /api/videos/:id` - Update video
- `DELETE /api/videos/:id` - Delete video

### Channel Management
- `POST /api/channels` - Create channel
- `GET /api/channels` - Get user channels
- `PUT /api/channels/:id` - Update channel
- `DELETE /api/channels/:id` - Delete channel

### Scheduled Videos
- `POST /api/scheduled-videos` - Create schedule
- `GET /api/scheduled-videos` - Get user schedules
- `PUT /api/scheduled-videos/:id` - Update schedule
- `DELETE /api/scheduled-videos/:id` - Delete schedule

## 🗄️ Database Schema

### Core Tables
- `users` - User authentication and basic info
- `user_profiles` - Extended user information
- `videos` - Video records and metadata
- `subscriptions` - User subscription plans
- `usage` - Usage tracking and analytics

### Feature Tables
- `user_channels` - Channel management with multi-platform support
- `scheduled_videos` - Automated video schedules
- `video_queue` - Video processing queue
- `user_onboarding` - Onboarding progress tracking

### Recent Updates
- **Multi-Platform Migration**: Added `platforms` array column to `user_channels` table
- **Platform Constraints**: Enforced valid platform values (youtube, instagram, tiktok, linkedin, other)
- **Backward Compatibility**: Automatic sync between `platforms` array and legacy `channel_type` field
- **Performance Optimization**: Added GIN index for efficient platform array queries

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🆘 Support

For support, email support@vidzyme.com or join our Discord community.

## 🗺️ Roadmap

- [ ] Advanced AI video customization
- [ ] More social media platform integrations
- [ ] Team collaboration features
- [ ] Advanced analytics and reporting
- [ ] Mobile application
- [ ] API for third-party integrations

---

**Vidzyme** - Transforming content creation with AI-powered video generation.

Commit message:

feat: Enhanced video player functionality and updated documentation
- Added VideoPlayerModal component with full-screen support and custom controls
- Implemented dynamic video URL fetching from backend with fallback mechanism
- Updated Vite proxy configuration to serve video files from /outputs
- Enhanced video history with integrated player functionality
- Added comprehensive keyboard shortcuts and auto-hide controls
- Updated all documentation files to reflect current project structure
- Added video player features section to development guide
- Updated project overview with current SaaS features and architecture

README.md, after:

# Vidzyme - AI Video Generation Platform

Vidzyme is a comprehensive AI-powered video generation platform that enables users to create engaging videos automatically with scheduled generation capabilities and seamless channel management.

## 🚀 Project Overview

**Vidzyme** is a FastAPI-based pipeline that:
1. Uses **Google Gemini** (via `gemini_secret.txt`) to write a video script
2. Splits the script into lines and generates AI images (Pollinations or any other image/video generation API)
3. Enhances prompts for better image generation quality
4. Generates voice-overs with **ElevenLabs TTS** (`voice_secret.txt`)
5. Assembles images or videos, audio, and captions into a short video with **MoviePy**, **FFmpeg**, and **ImageMagick**
6. Streams real-time progress via Server-Sent Events (SSE)

Ideal for automating quick YouTube Shorts, videos or social media clips on any topic.

## 📋 Features

### 🎥 Video Generation
- **Automated Script Writing** with Google Gemini
- **Image and Video Generation** for each caption segment
- **High-Quality TTS** from ElevenLabs
- **Dynamic Video Composition** (MoviePy + FFmpeg + ImageMagick)
- **Live Progress Updates** through SSE endpoint
- Real-time video processing status
- **Enhanced Video Player** with full-screen support and custom controls
- **Video History Management** with search, filtering, and analytics
- **Dynamic Video URL Fetching** from backend with fallback support

### 📅 Scheduled Video Generation
- Automated video generation on custom schedules (daily, weekly, monthly)
- Multiple scheduling options with flexible timing
- Channel-specific content generation
- Queue management for video processing

### 🎯 User Onboarding
- Interactive onboarding flow for new users
- Channel setup and content description capture
- Personalized experience based on user preferences
- Skip option for experienced users

### ⚙️ Channel Management
- Create and manage multiple content channels
- Edit channel information and content descriptions
- Content categorization and target audience settings
- Channel-specific video generation

### 🔗 Multi-Platform Support
- Support for multiple platforms per channel (YouTube, Instagram, TikTok, LinkedIn, and more)
- Select multiple platforms during onboarding for unified content creation
- Platform-specific content optimization and formatting
- Seamless video publishing across selected platforms

### 💳 Subscription Management
- Multiple subscription tiers (Free, Pro, Enterprise)
- Usage tracking and credit system
- Billing management and payment methods
- Real-time usage analytics

### 🛠️ Modular Codebase
- Easy customization and extension
- Clean separation of concerns
- Well-documented API endpoints
- Comprehensive error handling

## Tech Stack

### Frontend
- **React 18** with TypeScript
- **Vite** for fast development and building with proxy configuration
- **Tailwind CSS** for styling
- **Lucide React** for icons
- **Custom hooks** for state management
- **Supabase** for authentication and database
- **Video Player Modal** with full-screen support and custom controls

### Backend
- **FastAPI** for high-performance API
- **Supabase** for database and authentication
- **Row Level Security (RLS)** for data protection
- **Real-time subscriptions** for live updates
- **PostgreSQL** with custom functions and triggers

### Database Schema
- Users and user profiles
- Video management and history
- Channel management
- Scheduled video generation
- Video queue processing
- Subscription and usage tracking
- User onboarding status

## ⚙️ Prerequisites

### System Requirements
- **Node.js 18+** and npm
- **Python 3.9+**
- **Git** for version control
- **Supabase** account and project

### System Dependencies

**FFmpeg**
- **Windows**: Download installer from [ffmpeg.org](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) → Add `ffmpeg.exe` to your `PATH`
- **macOS**: `brew install ffmpeg`
- **Ubuntu/Debian**: `sudo apt update && sudo apt install ffmpeg`

**ImageMagick**
- **Windows**: Download from [imagemagick.org](https://imagemagick.org) → Add `magick.exe` to your `PATH`
- **macOS**: `brew install imagemagick`
- **Ubuntu/Debian**: `sudo apt update && sudo apt install imagemagick`

### API Keys

Create these text files in the project root (ignored by `.gitignore`):
- `gemini_secret.txt` - Your Google Gemini API key
- `voice_secret.txt` - Your ElevenLabs API key

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/molashin12/Vidzyme.git
   cd Vidzyme
   ```

2. **Install frontend dependencies**
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   npm install
   cd ..
   ```

3. **Install backend dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Set up environment variables**
   
   Create `.env` files in both frontend and root directories:
   
   **Frontend (.env)**
   ```env
   VITE_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
   VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
   ```
   
   **Backend (.env in root directory)**
   ```env
   SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
   SUPABASE_SERVICE_KEY=your_supabase_service_key
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
   ```

5. **Set up the database**
   
   Run the SQL scripts in your Supabase SQL editor:
   ```bash
   # First, run the main schema
   cat supabase-schema.sql | supabase db reset
   
   # Then, run the extensions for new features
   cat schema-extensions.sql | supabase db reset
   
   # Finally, run the platforms migration for multi-platform support
   cat schema-migration-platforms.sql | supabase db reset
   ```

6. **Start the development servers**
   
   **Frontend**
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   npm run dev
   ```
   
   **Backend**
   ```bash
   python server.py
   ```

### Development

The application will be available at:
- **Frontend**: `http://localhost:3000` (or next available port)
- **Backend API**: `http://localhost:8000`

## ▶️ Running the Application

### Development Mode
```bash
# Start the FastAPI application in development
uvicorn server:app --reload --host 127.0.0.1 --port 8000
```

### Production Mode
```bash
# Run the compiled executable (if available)
.\server.exe
```

### Usage
1. Open your browser to **[http://127.0.0.1:8000](http://127.0.0.1:8000)**
2. Enter a **topic** and select a **voice**
3. Watch real-time progress and download your generated video when it completes

### Alternative Implementation (Veo-3)
The project includes an alternative implementation using Google Veo-3 model:
- Configure `veo3/REPLICATE_API_TOKEN.txt` with your Replicate API token
- Use the Veo-3 modules for direct video generation instead of image-based assembly

## 📁 Project Structure

```
Vidzyme/
├── frontend/                    # React frontend application
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   │   ├── Layout/          # Header, Footer, Navigation
│   │   │   ├── Pages/           # Main application pages
│   │   │   ├── Onboarding/      # User onboarding flow
│   │   │   ├── ScheduledVideos/ # Scheduled video management
│   │   │   ├── Auth/            # Authentication components
│   │   │   └── UI/              # Reusable UI components
│   │   ├── hooks/               # Custom React hooks
│   │   ├── services/            # API and database services
│   │   ├── contexts/            # React context providers
│   │   └── config/              # Configuration files
│   ├── public/                  # Static assets
│   └── package.json
├── utils/                       # Backend utility functions
│   ├── gemini.py               # Google Gemini integration
│   ├── image_gen.py            # Image generation
│   ├── video_creation.py       # Video assembly
│   ├── voice_gen.py            # Voice generation
│   └── write_script.py         # Script writing
├── veo3/                       # Alternative Veo-3 implementation
├── outputs/                    # Generated content storage
│   ├── audio/                  # Generated audio files
│   └── images/                 # Generated images
├── docs/                       # Documentation
├── server.py                   # Main FastAPI server
├── scheduler.py                # Video scheduling system
├── requirements.txt            # Python dependencies
├── supabase-schema.sql         # Main database schema
├── schema-extensions.sql       # Extended schema for new features
├── schema-migration-platforms.sql # Multi-platform migration
├── PLATFORMS_MIGRATION_README.md  # Migration guide
└── README.md
```

## 🔧 Key Features Implementation

### Multi-Platform Support
- Select multiple platforms (YouTube, Instagram, TikTok, LinkedIn, Other) during onboarding
- Store all selected platforms in a single channel record
- Backward compatibility with existing single-platform channels
- Platform-specific content optimization and formatting
- Unified content creation workflow across platforms

### Onboarding Flow
- Multi-step form for new user setup
- Channel information collection with multi-platform selection
- Content preferences and categorization
- Skip option for experienced users
- Automatic redirect to dashboard upon completion

### Scheduled Video Generation
- Create custom schedules with frequency options
- Time-based execution with timezone support
- Channel-specific content generation
- Queue management for processing
- Enable/disable schedules as needed

### Channel Management
- Create and edit multiple channels
- Multi-platform selection and management
- Content description and categorization
- Target audience specification
- Integration with scheduled video generation

## 🔌 API Endpoints

### Video Management
- `POST /api/videos` - Create new video
- `GET /api/videos` - Get user videos
- `GET /api/videos/:id` - Get specific video
- `PUT /api/videos/:id` - Update video
- `DELETE /api/videos/:id` - Delete video

### Channel Management
- `POST /api/channels` - Create channel
- `GET /api/channels` - Get user channels
- `PUT /api/channels/:id` - Update channel
- `DELETE /api/channels/:id` - Delete channel

### Scheduled Videos
- `POST /api/scheduled-videos` - Create schedule
- `GET /api/scheduled-videos` - Get user schedules
- `PUT /api/scheduled-videos/:id` - Update schedule
- `DELETE /api/scheduled-videos/:id` - Delete schedule

## 🗄️ Database Schema

### Core Tables
- `users` - User authentication and basic info
- `user_profiles` - Extended user information
- `videos` - Video records and metadata
- `subscriptions` - User subscription plans
- `usage` - Usage tracking and analytics

### Feature Tables
- `user_channels` - Channel management with multi-platform support
- `scheduled_videos` - Automated video schedules
- `video_queue` - Video processing queue
- `user_onboarding` - Onboarding progress tracking

### Recent Updates
- **Multi-Platform Migration**: Added `platforms` array column to `user_channels` table
- **Platform Constraints**: Enforced valid platform values (youtube, instagram, tiktok, linkedin, other)
- **Backward Compatibility**: Automatic sync between `platforms` array and legacy `channel_type` field
- **Performance Optimization**: Added GIN index for efficient platform array queries

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🆘 Support

For support, email support@vidzyme.com or join our Discord community.

## 🗺️ Roadmap

- [ ] Advanced AI video customization
- [ ] More social media platform integrations
- [ ] Team collaboration features
- [ ] Advanced analytics and reporting
- [ ] Mobile application
- [ ] API for third-party integrations

---

**Vidzyme** - Transforming content creation with AI-powered video generation.
